##Rebecca Stower

What does it mean to be an interdisciplinary scientist? When I started my PhD in social robotics, I thought I would have to convince my peers to accept me as an equal, primed with years of hearing that psychology is a ‘soft’ science, less valid than engineering, computer science, maths or physics (after all, there is no ‘P’ in ‘STEM’). At the same time, I felt incredibly self-conscious that I was starting a PhD program in social robotics without ever having written a line of code. However, these fears turned out to be unfounded - my fellow PhD students in engineering and computer science never once suggested that psychology wasn’t a real science, that their degrees were harder, or that I didn’t deserve to be there. Instead many approached me with questions about research design and statistics, with a genuine interest in bettering their research through psychology. 

That is not to say that there were not bumps in the road. Collaborations often lead to arguments over sample sizes, research methods, and do we really need to submit an ethics proposal? However, just as my collaborators struggled to understand my insistence that we needed more than 30 participants, I struggled to understand the tech that goes into designing human-robot-interaction scenarios. Terms like machine learning, wizard of oz, latex, APIs, IDEs, SDKs, conda, jupyter, numpy and so many more at times seemed (and still seem) scary and overwhelming. I have endless appreciation for my many colleagues who were patient and understanding in explaining things to me as I struggled to navigate this new world (what is github? What is overleaf? What is VIM? How do I exit VIM?). 

In turn, I explained to them how to design experiments, what are independent and dependent variables, what is a confound, how to calculate sample size and power. It was a process of not just reciprocal teaching but learning how to communicate – things which seemed so completely obvious to each of us had to be completely broken down.  However, the goal is not to become a computer scientist, nor for my colleagues to become psychologists. Instead, at some point through this process we met in the middle and learned to complement each other’s skill sets. 

Working in an interdisciplinary project has also opened my eyes to both the strengths of psychology as an academic field, and its weaknesses. The strengths can be seen in rigorous experimental design, research methodologies, and statistics. Conversely, whilst I initially thought psychological theory would be the cornerstone of interdisciplinary research, in fact it is the opposite. In my experience, many roboticists and engineers in social robotics draw their literature from very old psychological theories, with little regard to the decades of research and nuance that have progressed since then.  However, I cannot say I blame them. Reading current psychological articles, many are not even accessible to other psychologists in different fields, let alone those in different disciplines. Add in the open science movement and things get even tricker – keeping up to date with best research practices, current research (both psychology and robotics) whilst designing HRI experiments is a balancing act, and one where I have definitely fallen over a few times.  

At the beginning of my PhD, I attended a conference targeted at open science in psychology. Here were people at the forefront of the open science movement, proactive about pre-registration, preprints, open data, and open access. Alongside this were also huge discussions about statistical techniques, from data scraping to big data to multi-level modelling. All these things are great and necessary for the progression of psychology as a field. Yet, as someone working in a field that is not pure psychology, I felt there was little room for discussion of grey areas. How can you promote pre-registration when your collaborators don’t know what an independent and dependent variable are? How do you run sufficiently powered studies in a field which commonly accepts and publishes with N < 30? I felt completely out of place compared to my fellow psychologists, like I was fighting my own battles for psychology on a completely different battlefield. 

Now, nearing the end of my PhD, I feel more comfortable about the role myself and other psychologists have to play in social robotics. But, getting here involved more than one PhD identity crises (psydentity crisis?). I am still not an engineer, but I also am no longer purely a psychologist. I am still incredibly passionate about psychological research, but have learned to be flexible when it comes to designing experiments, creative in overcoming limitations, and patient when understanding other points of view. The end result is studies and collaborations which go beyond the limits of what any one field or discipline can achieve, which to me, is the essence of being an interdisciplinary scientist. 

