**Rebecca Stower**

## Overcoming your ~peers~ fears 
When I started my PhD in social robotics,  I felt incredibly self-conscious that I was starting a PhD program in social robotics without ever having written a line of code. I thought I would have to convince my peers to accept me as an equal, primed with years of hearing that psychology is a ‘soft’ science, less valid than engineering, computer science, maths or physics (after all, there is no ‘P’ in ‘STEM’). However, these fears turned out to be unfounded - my fellow PhD students in engineering and computer science never once suggested that psychology wasn’t a real science, that their degrees were harder, or that I didn’t deserve to be there. Instead many approached me with questions about research design and statistics, with a genuine interest in bettering their research through psychology. The lesson I learned is to be more open minded when approaching peers from different disciplines, and beware of not only what you think others' biases might be, but what your own are as well. 

## Interdisciplinary Love Languages
Like any partnership, interdisciplinary projects are not without their bumps in the road. Collaborations can often lead to arguments over sample sizes, research methods, and do we _really_ need to submit an ethics proposal? However, just as my collaborators struggled to understand my insistence that we needed more than 30 participants, I struggled to understand the tech that goes into designing human-robot-interaction scenarios. Words and phrases like machine learning, wizard of oz, latex, APIs, IDEs, SDKs, conda, jupyter, numpy and so many more at times seemed (and still seem) scary and overwhelming. I have endless appreciation for my many colleagues who were patient and understanding in explaining things to me as I struggled to navigate this new world (what is github? What is overleaf? What is VIM? How do I _exit_ VIM?). In turn, I explained to them how to design experiments; what are independent and dependent variables, what is a confound, how to calculate sample size and power. It was a process of not just reciprocal teaching but learning how to communicate – things which seemed so completely obvious to each of us had to be completely broken down to find common ground. In time, we learned how to speak each others language. 

## Reverse Discipline Shock
The expats among you might have heard the term 'reverse culture shock', where when you return home after travelling or living abroad there is a period of readjustment. Interdisciplinary projects can be similar - returning to your 'home' discipline after spending time away in the exotic world of robots can be jarring. You have just learned to communicate with your non-psychology peers, now, however, you might feel you somehow relate a little less to non-robotics psychologists. 

At the beginning of my PhD, I attended a conference targeted at open science in psychology. Here were people at the forefront of the open science movement, proactive about pre-registration, preprints, open data, and open access. Alongside this were also huge discussions about statistical techniques, from data scraping to big data to multi-level modelling. All these things are great and necessary for the progression of psychology as a field. Yet, as someone working in a field that is not pure psychology, I felt there was little room for discussion of grey areas. How can you promote pre-registration when your collaborators don’t know what an independent and dependent variable are? How do you run sufficiently powered studies in a field which commonly accepts and publishes with N < 30? I felt completely out of place compared to my fellow psychologists, like I was fighting my own battles for psychology on a completely different battlefield. This is a dichotomy I am still trying to reconcile - keeping up to date with best research practices, current research (both psychology and robotics) whilst designing HRI experiments is a balancing act, and one where I have definitely fallen over a few times. 

Now, I try and keep the philosphy of work with what you have, and be transparent about what you did, and why. No study is ever likely to be perfect, even moreso when you add in robots, but that does not necessarily mean the contribution is not valuable, or that the findings should not be shared. It is possible to both highlight the contribution of a study whilst still acknowledging it's limitations. The most important thing is that your research is open and transparent, the rest is up to the reader to decide. 

## Resolving the Psydentity Crisis
Now nearing the end of my PhD, I feel more comfortable about the role myself and other psychologists have to play in social robotics. An important part of this journey was recognising my own strengths and weaknesses, as well as those of my collaborators, and what we are each contributing to a project. Someone at a conference recently told me 'creating an interdisciplinary team for human robot interaction experiments is like creating a startup', in that you need a whole team of people with different skills. Whilst there may be some unicorns out there who can write code, design interactions, run statistics, and know every relevant paper ever written on a subject, the reality is, most of us are not like that, and trying to master each of those domains (especially during a PhD) is a recipe for a lot of frustration. 3 years on from starting my PhD, I can now probably write a line of code (if I have to). However, at some point I realised the goal should not be to become an engineer (nor for my colleagues to become psychologists!) Instead, at some point we can meet in the middle to complement each other’s skill sets. The end result is studies and collaborations which go beyond the limits of what any one field or discipline can achieve, which to me, is the essence of being an interdisciplinary scientist. 

