**Rebecca Stower**

## Overcoming your ~~peers~~ fears 
When I started my PhD,  I felt incredibly self-conscious that I was starting a doctoral program in social robotics without ever having written a line of code. I thought I would have to convince my peers to accept me as an equal, primed with years of hearing that psychology is a ‘soft’ science, less valid than engineering, computer science, maths or physics (after all, there is no ‘P’ in ‘STEM’). However, these fears turned out to be unfounded - my fellow PhD students in engineering and computer science never once suggested that psychology wasn’t a real science, that their degrees were harder, or that I didn’t deserve to be there. Instead many approached me with questions about research design and statistics, with a genuine interest in bettering their research through psychology. Such interactions made me realise there was only one person bringing such negative expectations to the table - myself. From this experience, I learned the importance of being open-minded when approaching peers from different disciplines, and to beware of not only what you think others' biases might be, but what your own are as well. 

## Interdisciplinary Love Languages
Like any partnership, interdisciplinary projects are not without their bumps in the road. Collaborations can often lead to arguments over sample sizes, research methods, and do we _really_ need to submit an ethics proposal? Just as my collaborators sometimes struggle to understand my insistence that we needed more than 20 participants, I don't always understand the tech that goes into designing human-robot-interaction scenarios. Words and phrases like machine learning, Wizard of Oz, latex, APIs, IDEs, SDKs, conda, jupyter, numpy and so many more at times seemed (and still seem) scary and overwhelming. However, throughout this process I realised that as unfamiliar as these things seemed to me, so did things like power analysis, confound, ANOVA, pre-registration, HARK-ing seem to them. I have endless appreciation for my many colleagues who were patient and understanding in explaining things to me as I struggled to navigate this world (what is github? What is overleaf? What is VIM? How do I _exit_ VIM?) In turn, I explained how to design experiments; what are independent and dependent variables, how to calculate sample size and power, how to write an ethics proposal. It was a process of not just reciprocal teaching but learning how to communicate – things which seemed so completely obvious to each of us had to be completely broken down to find common ground. Any assumptions of 'basic' knowledge or ideas of 'everyone should know that' had to be thrown out the window - for both of us. This process, of learning not just _what_ to communicate, but also _how_ to communicate is one of the most valuable skills I have learned throughout my PhD so far. 

## Reverse Discipline Shock
The expats among you might have heard the term 'reverse culture shock', where when you return home after travelling or living abroad there is a period of readjustment. Interdisciplinary projects can be similar - returning to your 'home' discipline after spending time away in the exotic world of robots can be jarring. You have just learned to communicate with your non-psychology peers, now, however, you might feel you somehow relate a little less to non-robotics psychologists. 

For me, my first experience with this came about 1 year into my PhD, when I attended a conference targeted at open science in psychology. After having spent the majority of my time so far around computer scientists and engineers, I was excited to be among psychologists again. Here were people at the forefront of the open science movement, proactive about pre-registration, preprints, open data, and open access. Alongside this were also huge discussions about statistical techniques, from data scraping to big data to multi-level modelling. All these things are great and necessary for the progression of psychology as a field. Yet, as someone working in a field that is not pure psychology, I suddenly felt out of place. How can you promote pre-registration when your collaborators don’t know what an independent and dependent variable are? How do you run sufficiently powered studies in a field which commonly accepts and publishes with N < 30? I felt like I was fighting my own battles for psychology on a completely different battlefield. This is a dichotomy I am still trying to reconcile - keeping up to date with best research practices, current research (both psychology and robotics) whilst designing HRI experiments is a balancing act. 

Now, I try and keep the philosphy of work with what you have, and be transparent about what you did, and why. No study is ever likely to be perfect, even moreso when you add in robots, but that does not necessarily mean the contribution is not valuable, or that the findings should not be shared. It is possible to both highlight the contribution of a study whilst still acknowledging it's limitations. If you try and fit into the box of entirely psychology or entirely HRI, you will end up pleasing neither (psych venues may call your work too niche, HRI may say say its too psych-oriented). Instead, embrace your work for what it is and see the strength in having your own unique perspective. 

## Resolving the Psydentity Crisis
Nearing the end of my PhD, I now feel more comfortable about the role myself and other psychologists have to play in social robotics. An important part of this journey was recognising my own strengths and weaknesses, as well as those of my collaborators, and what we are each contributing to a project. Someone at a conference recently told me 'creating an interdisciplinary team for human robot interaction is like creating a startup' based on the number of different skills needed. Whilst there may be some unicorns out there who can write code, design interactions, run flawless statistical analyses, and know every relevant paper ever written on a subject, the reality is, most of us are not like that. Trying to master each of those domains (especially during a PhD) is a recipe for a lot of frustration. At some point during my PhD I realised that the goal should not be for me to try and become an engineer (or computer scientist, or UX designer), nor for my colleagues to become psychologists. Instead, we build upon and complement each other’s skill sets. The end result is studies and collaborations which go beyond the limits of what any one field or discipline can achieve, which to me, is the essence of being an interdisciplinary scientist. 

